- [Instructor] H+ Sport drinks has asked you
to begin analyzing the advantages and disadvantages
of using Apache Tomcat.
Let's take a few moments
to consider what Tomcat has to offer,
and some concerns with using Tomcat, as well.
Tomcat is really easy to setup.
Whether setting it up in a production environment,
or running it on your desktop,
it takes only a few steps to start up an instance.
Tomcat, as well, has great support on multiple OSs.
So, if you wanted to write code on a Mac
and deploy on a Linux,
or have a group of developers writing
on different platforms,
it really doesn't matter.
Upgrading Tomcat, as well,
is very easy.
Tomcat is lightweight.
If you don't need to add all of the Java EE components,
it makes a great fit.
And if you need to add some Java EE components,
it's not too difficult to add them, as well,
in your application.
Tomcat supports application clusters,
and has a great community support
and probably the greatest benefit
for small organizations,
is that it's free.
Now, with these advantages,
what are some of the disadvantages?
Tomcat clusters can be difficult to configure.
For example, the Farm Deployer capability,
which we didn't get into,
in Tomcat, the cluster configuration,
it's supposed to automatically deploy war files
across the cluster instances,
and this seems to been broken now,
for a number of years.
That said, anyone capable of writing shell scripts
could probably address the missing capability here.
Another issue,
although you can add the missing Java EE dependencies
to a war file,
this makes it more difficult
when you're attempting to deploy
to other applications like JBoss,
or WebLogic, or GlassFish
because the war would have to be changed, again.
This seems to go against the mantra
of write once,
and run anywhere.
Especially, if you're going to run simultaneously
across different application containers.
Tomcat manager, the web console,
seems underdeveloped compared to other application servers
like JBoss, and WebLogic and GlassFish,
there isn't a lot of bells and whistles here.
There also seems to be some concerns
for Tomcat's default log rotation capabilities.
All in all, Tomcat is one of the most popular app servers
on the market,
and some even suggest 60% market share
of all Java app servers.
The reality is even with the missing Java EE functionality,
this can be adjudicated
through other third party dependencies within your app.